# sqlalchemy-challenge
SQLAlchemy - Surf's Up

# Tasks

* Precipitation Analysis

  * Identified the maximum date via query

  * Subtracted one year from the maximum date

  * Executed query to return precipitation amounts for the last year of data collection

  * Saved the query results in a Dataframe

  * Grouped the Dataframe by date and selected the mean

  * Used a Pandas line plot to display the average precipitation per day

  * Used Dataframe Describe to show summary statistics

* Station Analysis

  * Executed a query to find the total number of stations reporting data

  * Executed a query to find the number of observations reported by each station and display it by number of observations in descending order

  * Executed a query to find the Min, Max, and Avg Temperature for the station that had the most observations.  The entire dataset was queried not just the latest year.

  * Executed a query to return the temperature for the last year of data collection for the station with most observations.

  * Used a Pandas histogram to plot the frequency by temperature

* Climate App

  * Created a Flask API with the following routes

    * Home Page - Lists all the routes that are available

    * /api/v1.0/precipitation - Returns average precipitation per day for the last year of collected data

    * /api/v1.0/stations - Returns information for each station, includes id, name, latitude, longitude, and elevation.

    * /api/v1.0/tobs - Returns daily temperature the last year of data collection for the station with the most observations.

    * /api/v1.0/<start> - Returns Min, Avg, and Max temperature for each day beginning with the date entered.

    * /api/v1.0/<start>/<end> - Returns Min, Avg, and Max temperature for each day beginning with the first date entered through the second date entered.

* Bonus Temperature Analysis

  * Executed a query to return temperature data for June of each year available.  The data captured was Station, Year, and Avg Temperature.  Stored the data in a Dataframe.

  * Executed a query to return temperature data for June of each year available.  The data captured was Station, Year, and Avg Temperature.  Stored the data in a Dataframe.

  * Merged the two Dataframes using an inner join on the Station and Year.  This eliminated any unmatched records.

  * Performed a paired t-test on the June vs. December temperature data.  A paired t-test was used because the data was collected for the same stations at different times.  The p-value is very small indicating that the difference in temperature is statistically significant.

  * Provided the vacation date range of 2018-01-24 - 2018-02-03.

  * Subtracted one year from the vacation dates and executed a query to return the Min, Avg, and Max temperature for the date range.

  * Used matplotlib to create a bar chart with the Avg temperature as the bar value.  An peak-to-peak line was generated by using the Max temperature - Min temperature values.

* Bonus Daily Rainfall Average

  * Subtracted one year from the vacation dates and executed a query to the total rainfall per station for the date range.

  * Displayed the station information and rainfall amount in descending order based on rainfall amount.

* Bonus Daily Normal Temperature

  * Converted the vacation start and end dates from string to date.

  * Created two lists to store the vacation date information.  One list stores each day in the vacation range as a date.  The second list stores each day as a string in 'mm-dd' format.

  * Looped through the list of 'mm-dd' strings and called the daily_normals function to return the Min, Avg, and Max temperature using that day from all years.

  * Stored the normal values into a Dataframe.

  * Used the list that contained each vacation day as a date to populate a new column in the Dataframe and set the index to the date.

  * Used a Pandas area plot to show the normal values for the vacation date range.